And so we've got our colors,
you can see that I can pull those in.
We've talked about the arbitrary colors,
we're killing it right now,
now it's time for you to do some work.
We have this very basic alert here,
you can kind of click on this link and
jump into one of the playgrounds without
having to set up or install anything.
If you don't get the shades
of colors exact,
I will find it in my heart to forgive you,
right?
It's more about the kind of flow of
pixel perfect is not super important,
but we should go for the high level
of the general aesthetic here.
I do mostly like to practice
some of the basic pieces.
And again, you're like but I don't
remember what the border one was, well,
first of all, what's border, right?
And second of all, use the force,
do you know what I mean?
You try to use the IntelliSense
in this case and
navigate it like that and
see where you get.
And again, stuff like we haven't
talked about Flexbox yet.
We haven't talked about grid,
I know, right?
We can start with that, but
if you wanna just try to explore and
get ahead of the curve, that's cool, too.
But yeah, take it for a spin and
see how close you can get
to this little alert box.
And then try some other stuff that
makes you happy if you get there, but
see how close you can get and
then we'll do it together.
With the base styles that we get out
of the box, with that kind of CSS Risa,
this is effectively what we
get to start with, right?
But I think it's also powerful because
it shows you how quickly we can kind
of begin to put something together.
So I think it's a great place
to start in that sense.
So let's go ahead and let's take it for
a spin, let's see what we got.
Okay, so there's a few kind of pieces,
right now,
obviously, divs take up the full width.
We probably want this to be a little
bit smaller, so we can say class,
and there's a bunch of ways to
kind of go about doing this.
I would just say that the width is 96,
I'll actually show you something
cool in a second as well.
Also, the width is about 96,
and that puts it around there,
mx-auto to get it in the middle, right?
This point, I only need the x-axis margin,
right, because I only care about
it being the middle of the two in that
case, and give it the rounded corners.
Let's give it a background color first.
Let's give it, let's say it's got bg,
looks like it was white, bg-white.
You have the shades except for white and
black, which are white and black.
If you want a off-black,
you can go change it in the theme.
So we've got white and
black in this case, and so
now I've got that in place,
it needs a little bit of padding.
So you say p-4,
it's coming together, right?
We say rounded, it's medium,
we'll give it a border of about 2,
which if you're wondering what 2 is,
it's in this case 2 pixels.
The nice part is you can kinda acquiesce
in again, if you need to change this,
go ahead.
And we want that to be purple.
I think I said in the kinda
exercise description,
I was only really using purple 600 and
400 for the most part.
So I think I've got, and this one,
I don't have the electric pilot yet.
So we want, not the bg,
we want the border, but
I do wanna point out that,
see those squiggly lines?
That's the IntelliSense saying you just
did two classes that do the same thing.
So I actually say the border,
and we'll give it a shadow.
That seems like probably most
of what we have in that case.
All right, so then let's see,
we've got that h1 appear as well,
and we can say, That it's got,
and we'll show some other
ways to do spacing momentarily, but we'll
say it's got a margin along the bottom.
That is font is semibold, and the text,
again, we'll say purple-600, right?
I thnk that's gonna be
a little bit bigger, right?
So we'll do text, you kinda see that I've
got a bunch of different options in here.
You'll get the autocomplete for
the colors too, but
we do the 2xl in that case, all right?
Yeah, that seems to be
about what I need there.
Let's say text is small here.
We don't have to get it exact, but
it's mostly about getting a feel for
styling something.
In Sierra, quickly,
this is coming together and
also the workflow of not doing that thing,
where it's like, I need seven monitors.
So I can look at my HTML, and my CSS,
and my JavaScript at the same time.
There's no JavaScript, but
yeah, you know what I mean.
Great, and so we've got that, again,
we can just say this is rounded.
And we could make this the base styles for
buttons, too, right?
We could just say all buttons
should have these things.
I will say, though,
that every time I feel tempted to do that,
I tend to regret it, right?
Because then you're like, okay, we've got
a button in the photo that's maybe bigger
and a totally different color,
now I'm overriding those styles.
And in a lot of cases, if you've ever
played the game of where you write your
own style sheet, where it's like, I want
input fields to have rounded corners.
And then you forget that a check
box is technically input field and
a range is also an input field.
Now, you have a weird shadow around
your range, so on and so forth, right?
With the components you make,
using any kind of framework, sure.
But I feel like every time that I think
that I'm supposed to go and do a bunch
of base styles for stuff, I realize that
the Web is terrible, and I suffer for it.
So we've got that in place,
we've got the border-2, we can say, again,
border-purple.
And you can decide at one point that
we do have a class, is just a border,
which is our default border color with
our default border thickness, right?
At a certain point,
the patterns emerge but
my caution to you is
not to early optimize,
because it's usually the early optimizing
where you're like brand new code base.
I'm gonna do everything perfect where you
make the mistakes that you tend to regret
because you don't actually know
the reality of the situation just yet.
px-2, px-1,
great, py-1, see?
Those sensor really helped me there, the
IntelliSense is really helping me there.
There we go.
I can talk, and then bg-purple-400,
I also get to cheat because
I do this all the time.
So it is well deep in my psyche
at this point, rounded border-2.
Great, and then yeah, so some of these, I
might break it out into a component class,
I'll actually show you how
to do that in a second.
px-1, yeah, px-2, see,
there's some advantages, right?
px-1, I zoomed my screen in a little
bit to make my font bigger,
but generally speaking,
I think that is very,
very close to what we
had in there as well.
Mark, you have a question
from the Internet.
>> Is there any special
sorting in that playground?
>> Yes.
>> When it comes to the classes?
>> Yep, it uses recommended
Tailwind sorting algorithm.
I would love to tell you that I
could totally do it from memory,
but if you watch,
there's an algorithm at one point.
If I put the two patterns away from
each other, and I hit Save, or
that Tidy button, unless I got
a boo-boo in my mark, this cancel.
Now, this gotta be a button,
I had a boo-boo in my markup,
you can see that, it will then move
them all into the right place.
So yeah, if I move that,
if I move this py somewhere else,
It kind of goes and tries to put
them all in a sensible arrangement.
We've got some of the basic shape,
followed by the colors,
followed by the spacing, yeah.
>> Does Tailwind have any
sort of form of reset?
Does it reset the styles?
>> So that preflight that took
all the styles away from my
button that we saw it
towards the beginning.
[SOUND] Out of the box,
that's what a button looks like, right?
And so it has got a very
aggressive set of a reset.
So in the very beginning,
you are somewhat on the hook for
at least laying the foundation for
some of these pieces, right?
Like I said, both from the official
documentation that I didn't take seriously
in the very beginning, they were like,
don't overoptimize too soon,
and I went and did it,
I have learned to agree with that.
But if there are things like, listen,
I know the general shape of my buttons
are always gonna be the same,
you can begin to break that stuff out.
I would just say, when it gets to
the point that you definitely need it,
and if you find yourself using React,
Svelte, Vue,
what have you, you probably
have a button component, right?
You don't need to put this in two places.
But let's talk about where, if we did
need to say, okay, I wanna have this idea
of maybe a primary and a secondary button,
right, that seems totally reasonable.
We could, and maybe I don't put
the color information in there, right,
it's up to you.
I'll show you both, but let's talk
about if I did wanna add reusable
components on just a CSS level, right?
And there are various reasons, if you're
just using a frontend framework of some
choice, right,
you might just put it in your component.
For us, there are a bunch of these that
we do pull out into styles because our
marketing website is next and
our core application is Svelte.
And guess what works in both places,
CSS, right?
So I would say, it's not that you have,
I would not rush to do this,
I would not over-optimize,
I have done this and I have paid the cost.
But there are absolutely
practical use cases,
where you might choose to eventually
break it out into a plugin,
where you might choose to kind
of extend that component layer.
And let's do that real quick, let's
talk about extending the component layer
cuz I think it's worthwhile to
see as a thing that we could do.
So we go into the CSS, and a lot of times,
your CSS file might just be
these three lines, right?
But I have two options here, I could
change the base style of what a button is,
I'm gonna regret that I promise you,
right?
Because eventually, I will then have
to override a bunch of the stuff for
a very special and different button I'd
rather start with the tabula rasa and
build on top of it.
But I could go ahead and
open up that components layer,
which are supposed to be those
kind of more reusable pieces.
So I could say, layer components,
And I could say .button.
And I forget what we had about the button,
no need to go look back and
forth too much.
We'll say it was what?
A px-2 and a py-1, and a border-2, and
I might choose not to put the color
information in there, right?
I might just choose to say,
well, that's what a button is,
and don't worry about it, past that.
And then let's go ahead and
put that back in my HTML here.
So now I could theoretically,
it was rounded as well as do that.
Rounded, and now what we'll do
is we'll just swap, put in btn,
you can call it button if you want,
I just get confused.
Right, btn, and
we can take out those paddings.
And now, I've got this idea of a reusable
button, I could then theoretically make
the idea of a primary and a secondary
button, so on and so forth, right, yeah.
>> There's a cool
community solution in chat?
>> So yeah, you can see that they
did some additional things in here,
where we've got the idea of a gradient.
Who amongst you has written a gradient
in regular CSS and enjoyed it?
Of course, he writes vanilla JavaScript
and makes his own frameworks.
But let's look at the end,
we'll do a deeper dive in this little bit.
The utility says super interesting,
at least don't worry about like,
I don't totally grok the gradient,
we'll talk about gradients later.
But I just wanna point out the power
of the utility classes in this case,
which is we've got a background gradient,
to-r, which is to right, right?
And then from-green-500, and that one,
they don't actually have,
they don't say to what.
But I couldn't say to, let's find
something absolutely ridiculous,
to-pink-500, and that's all it
took to make a gradient, right?
And with the IntelliSense, think about the
compounding interest of the time you save,
not really looking at the MBN docs on how
to do a gradient, so on ans so forth.
Anything else that we should kinda, any
other interesting tasting notes in here?
Yeah, but a gradient is simply a set of
utility classes that you can kind of write
on the fly, compose it all together.
And again, you could theoretically
pull this out as well
into your theme or
something along those lines as well.
But yeah, cool, is there anything in
the one that we're doing that we wanna
play around with or see?
I do wanna show you one other
thing that's kind of cool as well.
And this is mostly just
a regular CSS kinda thing,
which is right now my button
color is black, or yeah,
I think it's black in this case.
The other thing that I can
do that's super cool is,
let's say that the text color of these is,
text color is,
I'm writing regular CSS at this point,
text or
writing what I'm talking about, right?
We'll say text is, we'll say,
purple-600, right?
Cool, maybe it's not the best
contrast in the world,
but we'll turn this down to maybe 300.
And what I can do then
is I can actually say
that the border should just be current.
You can do that here as well.
And the cool part about this is I can
actually move this over into the button
style, and you'll see what I get for
free out of this, which is super neat.
Put the border-current in there with
the border-2, so we can take all that out.
And now if I change the text
color to green, you can see that
the border color changes as well,
right, which is super awesome.
Because now, yeah, I have to do maybe
something with the background, but
if you look at that secondary button,
which is not even as, we'll say cyan.
You can see that the border and
the test hole are now synced, so
I can start to pull out
some of those things.
And that's why I say, use your own,
do the tedious bit first and
then figure out what you wanna optimize.
But you can kind of begin to find out what
patterns make a ton of sense in this case,
and allow you to kind of have a lot
of flexibility along the way as well,
awesome.
>> So what are some gotchas that
you ran into by over-optimizing?
>> Just like I have a button and
then I find out,
do you think that design is only
gonna have that kind of button?
And the design decides that this other
place is a very different kind of button.
And now, you're doing things
to override those styles into
the boilerplate in there
a little bit too soon.
You know what I mean?
If you know for a fact that there
is only one kind of button,
that they're all rounded the same way,
yeah, go for it, right?
But when the other button shows up,
[LAUGH] right,
versus having just those classes
in there makes a ton of sense.
And you figure out what
parts you can pull out,
all of our border radiuses
are roughly the same.
And it's super interesting
because of these utility classes.
At a certain point, you have teched it and
you have designed it, right?
Designers have new ideas,
certain things drift.
One of the really interesting things we
were able to do a few months ago was,
in the same way that they use
the PurgeCSS to pull out all the styles,
I basically just wrote a parser.
And I could say what colors and
what border widths we were using,
where in the app.
And like hundreds of designers and
saying like, hey,
we're using one different
color of yellow over here.
Cuz it was all very
clear in the markup and
down to what component it was in,
right, and what file was all there.
I just wrote a script and
I was able to produce a spreadsheet, and
I were able to figure out what are the
primitives in our design system and
what do we need to think about.